We are now in the last steps before we actually load our cleaned and shaped query into the data model.
Now before we do that, let's finish the star schema by creating the FACT-Population table.
Now to do this, we will start the same way we did it for the DIM tables,
we will create a reference to the population combined query.
Now let's right-click it,
so the population combined query and click reference and we can already direct that to the data model group
and rename it to FACT-Population and press enter. Now that we got that,
let's think about what information and by that, what columns we actually need in that FACT-Population
table.
So the first column, that country ID and this is an important column because this column allows the FACT-Population
table to communicate with the DIM-Region table,
you remember in the DIM-Region table, we also have that country ID column. Now at the moment, they cannot communicate
but we will change that soon in the next module,
however the main information for the moment is that we need that country ID column, the country column,
this is something that we don't need because as we know that the country ID column in the FACT-Population
table allows us to communicate with the DIM-Region table in the next module,
this also means that we have the country information already in the DIM-Region table,
let's look and see that,
so right here. This means we can now delete the country column
in that FACT-Population table,
let's do this by going to the home ribbon and press remove columns like this, the year this is an information
that we only have in the FACT-Population table and this is why we have to keep it right there.
The Age-Group,
well this is something different,
we created that DIM-AgeGroup table,
this means if we would now be able to get the AgeGroup-ID, let's see that,
so this column into our FACT-Population table, then we would not need that Age-Group column anymore because
as I said, in the next module, we will learn how these tables can communicate with each other just by
those ID columns.
Now let's import that AgeGroup-ID column into the FACT-Population table and you know how this works, right
because what we want to do is we want to add a column basically
and to add columns, we only have to merge queries. So we can go to the home ribbon where we already are, go
to the merge queries option right here, click on the arrow and press merge queries,
now we are in the FACT-Population table and can select the Age-Group right here.
Now we will select the DIM-AgeGroup table right there and here we can select the Age-Group. The left outer
join is fine for the moment, we learnt that
so this is good and we can see that we could match all of the rows of course. As we got that, we can
now press OK
to add the column to our FACT-Population table and now we simply have to expand the column, unselect all
of the columns as we only need the AgeGroup-ID and also unselect the use the original column name as
prefix option,
this is also something that we already learned.
Now we can press OK and now we have the AgeGroup-ID in our FACT-Population table,
let me direct that to the left maybe, right here
and now that we have the AgeGroup-ID in this table, we can delete the Age-Group because the AgeGroup-ID allows
us now to refer to the DIM-AgeGroup table. Although I might repeat myself,
this is not working at the moment but we will learn how to create that in the next module. So we can delete
the Age-Group column like this and we can see that now we have a really clean FACT-Population table.
We have the country ID column which will allow us later to communicate with the DIM-Region table,
we have the AgeGroup-ID column which will allow us later to communicate with the DIM-AgeGroup table and
we have the information,
the year, gender and population which is only existing in the FACT-Population table. This is really good
but there is one thing that I don't like right here, in that population column right here.
What that is and how we can change that,
let me tell you that in the next video.